docs/API_Server.md, before:

# API server

This document describes Klipper's Application Programmer Interface
(API). This interface enables external applications to query and
control the Klipper host software.

## Enabling the API socket

In order to use the API server, the klippy.py host software must be
started with the `-a` parameter. For example:
```
~/klippy-env/bin/python ~/klipper/klippy/klippy.py ~/printer.cfg -a /tmp/klippy_uds -l /tmp/klippy.log
```

This causes the host software to create a Unix Domain Socket. A client
can then open a connection on that socket and send commands to
Klipper.

See the [Moonraker](https://github.com/Arksine/moonraker) project for
a popular tool that can forward HTTP requests to Klipper's API Server
Unix Domain Socket.

## Request format

Messages sent and received on the socket are JSON encoded strings
terminated by an ASCII 0x03 character:
```
<json_object_1><0x03><json_object_2><0x03>...
```

Klipper contains a `scripts/whconsole.py` tool that can perform the
above message framing. For example:
```
~/klipper/scripts/whconsole.py /tmp/klippy_uds
```

This tool can read a series of JSON commands from stdin, send them to
Klipper, and report the results. The tool expects each JSON command to
be on a single line, and it will automatically append the 0x03
terminator when transmitting a request. (The Klipper API server does
not have a newline requirement.)

## API Protocol

The command protocol used on the communication socket is inspired by
[json-rpc](https://www.jsonrpc.org/).

A request might look like:

`{"id": 123, "method": "info", "params": {}}`

and a response might look like:

`{"id": 123, "result": {"state_message": "Printer is ready",
"klipper_path": "/home/pi/klipper", "config_file":
"/home/pi/printer.cfg", "software_version": "v0.8.0-823-g883b1cb6",
"hostname": "octopi", "cpu_info": "4 core ARMv7 Processor rev 4
(v7l)", "state": "ready", "python_path":
"/home/pi/klippy-env/bin/python", "log_file": "/tmp/klippy.log"}}`

Each request must be a JSON dictionary. (This document uses the Python
term "dictionary" to describe a "JSON object" - a mapping of key/value
pairs contained within `{}`.)

The request dictionary must contain a "method" parameter that is the
string name of an available Klipper "endpoint".

The request dictionary may contain a "params" parameter which must be
of a dictionary type. The "params" provide additional parameter
information to the Klipper "endpoint" handling the request. Its
content is specific to the "endpoint".

The request dictionary may contain an "id" parameter which may be of
any JSON type. If "id" is present then Klipper will respond to the
request with a response message containing that "id". If "id" is
omitted (or set to a JSON "null" value) then Klipper will not provide
any response to the request. A response message is a JSON dictionary
containing "id" and "result". The "result" is always a dictionary -
its contents are specific to the "endpoint" handling the request.

If the processing of a request results in an error, then the response
message will contain an "error" field instead of a "result" field. For
example, the request:
`{"id": 123, "method": "gcode/script", "params": {"script": "G1
X200"}}`
might result in an error response such as:
`{"id": 123, "error": {"message": "Must home axis
first: 200.000 0.000 0.000 [0.000]", "error": "WebRequestError"}}`

Klipper will always start processing requests in the order that they
are received. However, some request may not complete immediately,
which could cause the associated response to be sent out of order with
respect to responses from other requests. A JSON request will never
pause the processing of future JSON requests.

## Subscriptions

Some Klipper "endpoint" requests allow one to "subscribe" to future
asynchronous update messages.

For example:

`{"id": 123, "method": "gcode/subscribe_output", "params":
{"response_template":{"key": 345}}}`

may initially respond with:

`{"id": 123, "result": {}}`

and cause Klipper to send future messages similar to:

`{"params": {"response": "ok B:22.8 /0.0 T0:22.4 /0.0"}, "key": 345}`

A subscription request accepts a "response_template" dictionary in the
"params" field of the request. That "response_template" dictionary is
used as a template for future asynchronous messages - it may contain
arbitrary key/value pairs. When sending these future asynchronous
messages, Klipper will add a "params" field containing a dictionary
with "endpoint" specific contents to the response template and then
send that template. If a "response_template" field is not provided
then it defaults to an empty dictionary (`{}`).

## Available "endpoints"

By convention, Klipper "endpoints" are of the form
`<module_name>/<some_name>`. When making a request to an "endpoint",
the full name must be set in the "method" parameter of the request
dictionary (eg, `{"method"="gcode/restart"}`).

### info

The "info" endpoint is used to obtain system and version information
from Klipper. It is also used to provide the client's version
information to Klipper. For example:
`{"id": 123, "method": "info", "params": { "client_info": { "version":
"v1"}}}`

If present, the "client_info" parameter must be a dictionary, but that
dictionary may have arbitrary contents. Clients are encouraged to
provide the name of the client and its software version when first
connecting to the Klipper API server.

### emergency_stop

The "emergency_stop" endpoint is used to instruct Klipper to
transition to a "shutdown" state. It behaves similarly to the G-Code
`M112` command. For example:
`{"id": 123, "method": "emergency_stop"}`

### register_remote_method

This endpoint allows clients to register methods that can be called
from klipper.  It will return an empty object upon success.

For example:
`{"id": 123, "method": "register_remote_method",
"params": {"response_template": {"action": "run_paneldue_beep"},
"remote_method": "paneldue_beep"}}`
will return:
`{"id": 123, "result": {}}`

The remote method `paneldue_beep` may now be called from Klipper. Note
that if the method takes parameters they should be provided as keyword
arguments. Below is an example of how it may called from a gcode_macro:
```
[gcode_macro PANELDUE_BEEP]
gcode:
  {action_call_remote_method("paneldue_beep", frequency=300, duration=1.0)}
```

When the PANELDUE_BEEP gcode macro is executed, Klipper would send something
like the following over the socket:
`{"action": "run_paneldue_beep",
"params": {"frequency": 300, "duration": 1.0}}`

### objects/list

This endpoint queries the list of available printer "objects" that one
may query (via the "objects/query" endpoint). For example:
`{"id": 123, "method": "objects/list"}`
might return:
`{"id": 123, "result": {"objects":
["webhooks", "configfile", "heaters", "gcode_move", "query_endstops",
"idle_timeout", "toolhead", "extruder"]}}`

### objects/query

This endpoint allows one to query information from printer objects.
For example:
`{"id": 123, "method": "objects/query", "params": {"objects":
{"toolhead": ["position"], "webhooks": null}}}`
might return:
`{"id": 123, "result": {"status": {"webhooks": {"state": "ready",
"state_message": "Printer is ready"}, "toolhead": {"position":
[0.0, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0]}}, "eventtime": 3051555.377933684}}`

The "objects" parameter in the request must be a dictionary containing
the printer objects that are to be queried - the key contains the
printer object name and the value is either "null" (to query all
fields) or a list of field names.

The response message will contain a "status" field containing a
dictionary with the queried information - the key contains the printer
object name and the value is a dictionary containing its fields. The
response message will also contain an "eventtime" field containing the
timestamp from when the query was taken.

Available fields are documented in the
[Status Reference](Status_Reference.md) document.

### objects/subscribe

This endpoint allows one to query and then subscribe to information
from printer objects. The endpoint request and response is identical
to the "objects/query" endpoint. For example:
`{"id": 123, "method": "objects/subscribe", "params":
{"objects":{"toolhead": ["position"], "webhooks": ["state"]},
"response_template":{}}}`
might return:
`{"id": 123, "result": {"status": {"webhooks": {"state": "ready"},
"toolhead": {"position": [0.0, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0]}},
"eventtime": 3052153.382083195}}`
and result in subsequent asynchronous messages such as:
`{"params": {"status": {"webhooks": {"state": "shutdown"}},
"eventtime": 3052165.418815847}}`

### gcode/help

This endpoint allows one to query available G-Code commands that have
a help string defined. For example:
`{"id": 123, "method": "gcode/help"}`
might return:
`{"id": 123, "result": {"RESTORE_GCODE_STATE": "Restore a previously
saved G-Code state", "PID_CALIBRATE": "Run PID calibration test",
"QUERY_ADC": "Report the last value of an analog pin", ...}}`

### gcode/script

This endpoint allows one to run a series of G-Code commands. For example:
`{"id": 123, "method": "gcode/script", "params": {"script": "G90"}}`

If the provided G-Code script raises an error, then an error response
is generated. However, if the G-Code command produces terminal output,
that terminal output is not provided in the response. (Use the
"gcode/subscribe_output" endpoint to obtain G-Code terminal output.)

If there is a G-Code command being processed when this request is
received, then the provided script will be queued. This delay could be
significant (eg, if a G-Code wait for temperature command is running).
The JSON response message is sent when the processing of the script
fully completes.

### gcode/restart

This endpoint allows one to request a restart - it is similar to
running the G-Code "RESTART" command. For example:
`{"id": 123, "method": "gcode/restart"}`

As with the "gcode/script" endpoint, this endpoint only completes
after any pending G-Code commands complete.

### gcode/firmware_restart

This is similar to the "gcode/restart" endpoint - it implements the
G-Code "FIRMWARE_RESTART" command. For example:
`{"id": 123, "method": "gcode/firmware_restart"}`

As with the "gcode/script" endpoint, this endpoint only completes
after any pending G-Code commands complete.

### gcode/subscribe_output

This endpoint is used to subscribe to G-Code terminal messages that
are generated by Klipper. For example:
`{"id": 123, "method": "gcode/subscribe_output", "params":
{"response_template":{}}}`
might later produce asynchronous messages such as:
`{"params": {"response": "// Klipper state: Shutdown"}}`

This endpoint is intended to support human interaction via a "terminal
window" interface. Parsing content from the G-Code terminal output is
discouraged. Use the "objects/subscribe" endpoint to obtain updates on
Klipper's state.

### motion_report/dump_stepper

This endpoint is used to subscribe to Klipper's internal stepper
queue_step command stream for a stepper. Obtaining these low-level
motion updates may be useful for diagnostic and debugging
purposes. Using this endpoint may increase Klipper's system load.

A request may look like:
`{"id": 123, "method":"motion_report/dump_stepper",
"params": {"name": "stepper_x", "response_template": {}}}`
and might return:
`{"id": 123, "result": {"header": ["interval", "count", "add"]}}`
and might later produce asynchronous messages such as:
`{"params": {"first_clock": 179601081, "first_time": 8.98,
"first_position": 0, "last_clock": 219686097, "last_time": 10.984,
"data": [[179601081, 1, 0], [29573, 2, -8685], [16230, 4, -1525],
[10559, 6, -160], [10000, 976, 0], [10000, 1000, 0], [10000, 1000, 0],
[10000, 1000, 0], [9855, 5, 187], [11632, 4, 1534], [20756, 2, 9442]]}}`

The "header" field in the initial query response is used to describe
the fields found in later "data" responses.

### motion_report/dump_trapq

This endpoint is used to subscribe to Klipper's internal "trapezoid
motion queue". Obtaining these low-level motion updates may be useful
for diagnostic and debugging purposes. Using this endpoint may
increase Klipper's system load.

A request may look like:
`{"id": 123, "method": "motion_report/dump_trapq", "params":
{"name": "toolhead", "response_template":{}}}`
and might return:
`{"id": 1, "result": {"header": ["time", "duration",
"start_velocity", "acceleration", "start_position", "direction"]}}`
and might later produce asynchronous messages such as:
`{"params": {"data": [[4.05, 1.0, 0.0, 0.0, [300.0, 0.0, 0.0],
[0.0, 0.0, 0.0]], [5.054, 0.001, 0.0, 3000.0, [300.0, 0.0, 0.0],
[-1.0, 0.0, 0.0]]]}}`

The "header" field in the initial query response is used to describe
the fields found in later "data" responses.

### adxl345/dump_adxl345

This endpoint is used to subscribe to ADXL345 accelerometer data.
Obtaining these low-level motion updates may be useful for diagnostic
and debugging purposes. Using this endpoint may increase Klipper's
system load.

A request may look like:
`{"id": 123, "method":"adxl345/dump_adxl345",
"params": {"sensor": "adxl345", "response_template": {}}}`
and might return:
`{"id": 123,"result":{"header":["time","x_acceleration","y_acceleration",
"z_acceleration"]}}`
and might later produce asynchronous messages such as:
`{"params":{"overflows":0,"data":[[3292.432935,-535.44309,-1529.8374,9561.4],
[3292.433256,-382.45935,-1606.32927,9561.48375]]}}`

The "header" field in the initial query response is used to describe
the fields found in later "data" responses.

### angle/dump_angle

This endpoint is used to subscribe to
[angle sensor data](Config_Reference.md#angle). Obtaining these
low-level motion updates may be useful for diagnostic and debugging
purposes. Using this endpoint may increase Klipper's system load.

A request may look like:
`{"id": 123, "method":"angle/dump_angle",
"params": {"sensor": "my_angle_sensor", "response_template": {}}}`
and might return:
`{"id": 123,"result":{"header":["time","angle"]}}`
and might later produce asynchronous messages such as:
`{"params":{"position_offset":3.151562,"errors":0,
"data":[[1290.951905,-5063],[1290.952321,-5065]]}}`

The "header" field in the initial query response is used to describe
the fields found in later "data" responses.

### pause_resume/cancel

This endpoint is similar to running the "PRINT_CANCEL" G-Code command.
For example:
`{"id": 123, "method": "pause_resume/cancel"}`

As with the "gcode/script" endpoint, this endpoint only completes
after any pending G-Code commands complete.

### pause_resume/pause

This endpoint is similar to running the "PAUSE" G-Code command. For
example:
`{"id": 123, "method": "pause_resume/pause"}`

As with the "gcode/script" endpoint, this endpoint only completes
after any pending G-Code commands complete.

### pause_resume/resume

This endpoint is similar to running the "RESUME" G-Code command. For
example:
`{"id": 123, "method": "pause_resume/resume"}`

As with the "gcode/script" endpoint, this endpoint only completes
after any pending G-Code commands complete.

### query_endstops/status

This endpoint will query the active endpoints and return their status.
For example:
`{"id": 123, "method": "query_endstops/status"}`
might return:
`{"id": 123, "result": {"y": "open", "x": "open", "z": "TRIGGERED"}}`

As with the "gcode/script" endpoint, this endpoint only completes
after any pending G-Code commands complete.

Commit message:

Bulk ADC Sensors
Add Bulk ADC Sensors and Load Cell skeleton

* Add support for the ADS1220, HX717 and HX711  ADC sensors.
* Add a load_cell skeleton to create the sensors and start taking samples.

Signed-off-by: Gareth Farrington <gareth@waves.ky>

Report errors instead of SHUTDOWN

* Send errors back to the host
* When an error is encountered don't reschedule the timer so sampling stops.
* For the HX71x chips, put the chip to sleep when not sampling
Its up to the host to cleanly stop sampling sensor and restart if desired

Optimize checking for pending bytes

Switch hx71x input pin to pull-up resistor

Fix pending flag

* don't set the pending measurements flag on timer reschedule
* Clear pending measurements flag before rescheduling the timer
* delete old code from multi-flag version

Remove comment from multi-sensor implementation

Remove BulkSensorAdc Interface

Don't modify setup_query_command()

docs/API_Server.md, after:

# API server

This document describes Klipper's Application Programmer Interface
(API). This interface enables external applications to query and
control the Klipper host software.

## Enabling the API socket

In order to use the API server, the klippy.py host software must be
started with the `-a` parameter. For example:
```
~/klippy-env/bin/python ~/klipper/klippy/klippy.py ~/printer.cfg -a /tmp/klippy_uds -l /tmp/klippy.log
```

This causes the host software to create a Unix Domain Socket. A client
can then open a connection on that socket and send commands to
Klipper.

See the [Moonraker](https://github.com/Arksine/moonraker) project for
a popular tool that can forward HTTP requests to Klipper's API Server
Unix Domain Socket.

## Request format

Messages sent and received on the socket are JSON encoded strings
terminated by an ASCII 0x03 character:
```
<json_object_1><0x03><json_object_2><0x03>...
```

Klipper contains a `scripts/whconsole.py` tool that can perform the
above message framing. For example:
```
~/klipper/scripts/whconsole.py /tmp/klippy_uds
```

This tool can read a series of JSON commands from stdin, send them to
Klipper, and report the results. The tool expects each JSON command to
be on a single line, and it will automatically append the 0x03
terminator when transmitting a request. (The Klipper API server does
not have a newline requirement.)

## API Protocol

The command protocol used on the communication socket is inspired by
[json-rpc](https://www.jsonrpc.org/).

A request might look like:

`{"id": 123, "method": "info", "params": {}}`

and a response might look like:

`{"id": 123, "result": {"state_message": "Printer is ready",
"klipper_path": "/home/pi/klipper", "config_file":
"/home/pi/printer.cfg", "software_version": "v0.8.0-823-g883b1cb6",
"hostname": "octopi", "cpu_info": "4 core ARMv7 Processor rev 4
(v7l)", "state": "ready", "python_path":
"/home/pi/klippy-env/bin/python", "log_file": "/tmp/klippy.log"}}`

Each request must be a JSON dictionary. (This document uses the Python
term "dictionary" to describe a "JSON object" - a mapping of key/value
pairs contained within `{}`.)

The request dictionary must contain a "method" parameter that is the
string name of an available Klipper "endpoint".

The request dictionary may contain a "params" parameter which must be
of a dictionary type. The "params" provide additional parameter
information to the Klipper "endpoint" handling the request. Its
content is specific to the "endpoint".

The request dictionary may contain an "id" parameter which may be of
any JSON type. If "id" is present then Klipper will respond to the
request with a response message containing that "id". If "id" is
omitted (or set to a JSON "null" value) then Klipper will not provide
any response to the request. A response message is a JSON dictionary
containing "id" and "result". The "result" is always a dictionary -
its contents are specific to the "endpoint" handling the request.

If the processing of a request results in an error, then the response
message will contain an "error" field instead of a "result" field. For
example, the request:
`{"id": 123, "method": "gcode/script", "params": {"script": "G1
X200"}}`
might result in an error response such as:
`{"id": 123, "error": {"message": "Must home axis
first: 200.000 0.000 0.000 [0.000]", "error": "WebRequestError"}}`

Klipper will always start processing requests in the order that they
are received. However, some request may not complete immediately,
which could cause the associated response to be sent out of order with
respect to responses from other requests. A JSON request will never
pause the processing of future JSON requests.

## Subscriptions

Some Klipper "endpoint" requests allow one to "subscribe" to future
asynchronous update messages.

For example:

`{"id": 123, "method": "gcode/subscribe_output", "params":
{"response_template":{"key": 345}}}`

may initially respond with:

`{"id": 123, "result": {}}`

and cause Klipper to send future messages similar to:

`{"params": {"response": "ok B:22.8 /0.0 T0:22.4 /0.0"}, "key": 345}`

A subscription request accepts a "response_template" dictionary in the
"params" field of the request. That "response_template" dictionary is
used as a template for future asynchronous messages - it may contain
arbitrary key/value pairs. When sending these future asynchronous
messages, Klipper will add a "params" field containing a dictionary
with "endpoint" specific contents to the response template and then
send that template. If a "response_template" field is not provided
then it defaults to an empty dictionary (`{}`).

## Available "endpoints"

By convention, Klipper "endpoints" are of the form
`<module_name>/<some_name>`. When making a request to an "endpoint",
the full name must be set in the "method" parameter of the request
dictionary (eg, `{"method"="gcode/restart"}`).

### info

The "info" endpoint is used to obtain system and version information
from Klipper. It is also used to provide the client's version
information to Klipper. For example:
`{"id": 123, "method": "info", "params": { "client_info": { "version":
"v1"}}}`

If present, the "client_info" parameter must be a dictionary, but that
dictionary may have arbitrary contents. Clients are encouraged to
provide the name of the client and its software version when first
connecting to the Klipper API server.

### emergency_stop

The "emergency_stop" endpoint is used to instruct Klipper to
transition to a "shutdown" state. It behaves similarly to the G-Code
`M112` command. For example:
`{"id": 123, "method": "emergency_stop"}`

### register_remote_method

This endpoint allows clients to register methods that can be called
from klipper.  It will return an empty object upon success.

For example:
`{"id": 123, "method": "register_remote_method",
"params": {"response_template": {"action": "run_paneldue_beep"},
"remote_method": "paneldue_beep"}}`
will return:
`{"id": 123, "result": {}}`

The remote method `paneldue_beep` may now be called from Klipper. Note
that if the method takes parameters they should be provided as keyword
arguments. Below is an example of how it may called from a gcode_macro:
```
[gcode_macro PANELDUE_BEEP]
gcode:
  {action_call_remote_method("paneldue_beep", frequency=300, duration=1.0)}
```

When the PANELDUE_BEEP gcode macro is executed, Klipper would send something
like the following over the socket:
`{"action": "run_paneldue_beep",
"params": {"frequency": 300, "duration": 1.0}}`

### objects/list

This endpoint queries the list of available printer "objects" that one
may query (via the "objects/query" endpoint). For example:
`{"id": 123, "method": "objects/list"}`
might return:
`{"id": 123, "result": {"objects":
["webhooks", "configfile", "heaters", "gcode_move", "query_endstops",
"idle_timeout", "toolhead", "extruder"]}}`

### objects/query

This endpoint allows one to query information from printer objects.
For example:
`{"id": 123, "method": "objects/query", "params": {"objects":
{"toolhead": ["position"], "webhooks": null}}}`
might return:
`{"id": 123, "result": {"status": {"webhooks": {"state": "ready",
"state_message": "Printer is ready"}, "toolhead": {"position":
[0.0, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0]}}, "eventtime": 3051555.377933684}}`

The "objects" parameter in the request must be a dictionary containing
the printer objects that are to be queried - the key contains the
printer object name and the value is either "null" (to query all
fields) or a list of field names.

The response message will contain a "status" field containing a
dictionary with the queried information - the key contains the printer
object name and the value is a dictionary containing its fields. The
response message will also contain an "eventtime" field containing the
timestamp from when the query was taken.

Available fields are documented in the
[Status Reference](Status_Reference.md) document.

### objects/subscribe

This endpoint allows one to query and then subscribe to information
from printer objects. The endpoint request and response is identical
to the "objects/query" endpoint. For example:
`{"id": 123, "method": "objects/subscribe", "params":
{"objects":{"toolhead": ["position"], "webhooks": ["state"]},
"response_template":{}}}`
might return:
`{"id": 123, "result": {"status": {"webhooks": {"state": "ready"},
"toolhead": {"position": [0.0, 0.0, 0.0, 0.0]}},
"eventtime": 3052153.382083195}}`
and result in subsequent asynchronous messages such as:
`{"params": {"status": {"webhooks": {"state": "shutdown"}},
"eventtime": 3052165.418815847}}`

### gcode/help

This endpoint allows one to query available G-Code commands that have
a help string defined. For example:
`{"id": 123, "method": "gcode/help"}`
might return:
`{"id": 123, "result": {"RESTORE_GCODE_STATE": "Restore a previously
saved G-Code state", "PID_CALIBRATE": "Run PID calibration test",
"QUERY_ADC": "Report the last value of an analog pin", ...}}`

### gcode/script

This endpoint allows one to run a series of G-Code commands. For example:
`{"id": 123, "method": "gcode/script", "params": {"script": "G90"}}`

If the provided G-Code script raises an error, then an error response
is generated. However, if the G-Code command produces terminal output,
that terminal output is not provided in the response. (Use the
"gcode/subscribe_output" endpoint to obtain G-Code terminal output.)

If there is a G-Code command being processed when this request is
received, then the provided script will be queued. This delay could be
significant (eg, if a G-Code wait for temperature command is running).
The JSON response message is sent when the processing of the script
fully completes.

### gcode/restart

This endpoint allows one to request a restart - it is similar to
running the G-Code "RESTART" command. For example:
`{"id": 123, "method": "gcode/restart"}`

As with the "gcode/script" endpoint, this endpoint only completes
after any pending G-Code commands complete.

### gcode/firmware_restart

This is similar to the "gcode/restart" endpoint - it implements the
G-Code "FIRMWARE_RESTART" command. For example:
`{"id": 123, "method": "gcode/firmware_restart"}`

As with the "gcode/script" endpoint, this endpoint only completes
after any pending G-Code commands complete.

### gcode/subscribe_output

This endpoint is used to subscribe to G-Code terminal messages that
are generated by Klipper. For example:
`{"id": 123, "method": "gcode/subscribe_output", "params":
{"response_template":{}}}`
might later produce asynchronous messages such as:
`{"params": {"response": "// Klipper state: Shutdown"}}`

This endpoint is intended to support human interaction via a "terminal
window" interface. Parsing content from the G-Code terminal output is
discouraged. Use the "objects/subscribe" endpoint to obtain updates on
Klipper's state.

### motion_report/dump_stepper

This endpoint is used to subscribe to Klipper's internal stepper
queue_step command stream for a stepper. Obtaining these low-level
motion updates may be useful for diagnostic and debugging
purposes. Using this endpoint may increase Klipper's system load.

A request may look like:
`{"id": 123, "method":"motion_report/dump_stepper",
"params": {"name": "stepper_x", "response_template": {}}}`
and might return:
`{"id": 123, "result": {"header": ["interval", "count", "add"]}}`
and might later produce asynchronous messages such as:
`{"params": {"first_clock": 179601081, "first_time": 8.98,
"first_position": 0, "last_clock": 219686097, "last_time": 10.984,
"data": [[179601081, 1, 0], [29573, 2, -8685], [16230, 4, -1525],
[10559, 6, -160], [10000, 976, 0], [10000, 1000, 0], [10000, 1000, 0],
[10000, 1000, 0], [9855, 5, 187], [11632, 4, 1534], [20756, 2, 9442]]}}`

The "header" field in the initial query response is used to describe
the fields found in later "data" responses.

### motion_report/dump_trapq

This endpoint is used to subscribe to Klipper's internal "trapezoid
motion queue". Obtaining these low-level motion updates may be useful
for diagnostic and debugging purposes. Using this endpoint may
increase Klipper's system load.

A request may look like:
`{"id": 123, "method": "motion_report/dump_trapq", "params":
{"name": "toolhead", "response_template":{}}}`
and might return:
`{"id": 1, "result": {"header": ["time", "duration",
"start_velocity", "acceleration", "start_position", "direction"]}}`
and might later produce asynchronous messages such as:
`{"params": {"data": [[4.05, 1.0, 0.0, 0.0, [300.0, 0.0, 0.0],
[0.0, 0.0, 0.0]], [5.054, 0.001, 0.0, 3000.0, [300.0, 0.0, 0.0],
[-1.0, 0.0, 0.0]]]}}`

The "header" field in the initial query response is used to describe
the fields found in later "data" responses.

### adxl345/dump_adxl345

This endpoint is used to subscribe to ADXL345 accelerometer data.
Obtaining these low-level motion updates may be useful for diagnostic
and debugging purposes. Using this endpoint may increase Klipper's
system load.

A request may look like:
`{"id": 123, "method":"adxl345/dump_adxl345",
"params": {"sensor": "adxl345", "response_template": {}}}`
and might return:
`{"id": 123,"result":{"header":["time","x_acceleration","y_acceleration",
"z_acceleration"]}}`
and might later produce asynchronous messages such as:
`{"params":{"overflows":0,"data":[[3292.432935,-535.44309,-1529.8374,9561.4],
[3292.433256,-382.45935,-1606.32927,9561.48375]]}}`

The "header" field in the initial query response is used to describe
the fields found in later "data" responses.

### angle/dump_angle

This endpoint is used to subscribe to
[angle sensor data](Config_Reference.md#angle). Obtaining these
low-level motion updates may be useful for diagnostic and debugging
purposes. Using this endpoint may increase Klipper's system load.

A request may look like:
`{"id": 123, "method":"angle/dump_angle",
"params": {"sensor": "my_angle_sensor", "response_template": {}}}`
and might return:
`{"id": 123,"result":{"header":["time","angle"]}}`
and might later produce asynchronous messages such as:
`{"params":{"position_offset":3.151562,"errors":0,
"data":[[1290.951905,-5063],[1290.952321,-5065]]}}`

The "header" field in the initial query response is used to describe
the fields found in later "data" responses.

### hx71x/dump_hx71x

This endpoint is used to subscribe to raw HX711 and HX717 ADC data.
Obtaining these low-level ADC updates may be useful for diagnostic
and debugging purposes. Using this endpoint may increase Klipper's
system load.

A request may look like:
`{"id": 123, "method":"hx71x/dump_hx71x",
"params": {"sensor": "load_cell", "response_template": {}}}`
and might return:
`{"id": 123,"result":{"header":["time","counts"]}}`
and might later produce asynchronous messages such as:
`{"params":{"data":[[3292.432935, 562534], [3292.4394937, 5625322]]}}`

### ads1220/dump_ads1220

This endpoint is used to subscribe to raw ADS1220 ADC data.
Obtaining these low-level ADC updates may be useful for diagnostic
and debugging purposes. Using this endpoint may increase Klipper's
system load.

A request may look like:
`{"id": 123, "method":"ads1220/dump_ads1220",
"params": {"sensor": "load_cell", "response_template": {}}}`
and might return:
`{"id": 123,"result":{"header":["time","counts"]}}`
and might later produce asynchronous messages such as:
`{"params":{"data":[[3292.432935, 562534], [3292.4394937, 5625322]]}}`

### pause_resume/cancel

This endpoint is similar to running the "PRINT_CANCEL" G-Code command.
For example:
`{"id": 123, "method": "pause_resume/cancel"}`

As with the "gcode/script" endpoint, this endpoint only completes
after any pending G-Code commands complete.

### pause_resume/pause

This endpoint is similar to running the "PAUSE" G-Code command. For
example:
`{"id": 123, "method": "pause_resume/pause"}`

As with the "gcode/script" endpoint, this endpoint only completes
after any pending G-Code commands complete.

### pause_resume/resume

This endpoint is similar to running the "RESUME" G-Code command. For
example:
`{"id": 123, "method": "pause_resume/resume"}`

As with the "gcode/script" endpoint, this endpoint only completes
after any pending G-Code commands complete.

### query_endstops/status

This endpoint will query the active endpoints and return their status.
For example:
`{"id": 123, "method": "query_endstops/status"}`
might return:
`{"id": 123, "result": {"y": "open", "x": "open", "z": "TRIGGERED"}}`

As with the "gcode/script" endpoint, this endpoint only completes
after any pending G-Code commands complete.
